Though some of this should be configurable, a reasonable ball park figure might be that we want to have running 5 Shipping Companies, 5 Traders, 1 FateAndGuesswork, 1 FXService, 1 Bank, 1 Resolver One spreadsheet, 0+ WpfGraphs,1 SQL Server instance, optionally 1 SortingServer + 1 SortingClient.

Bank:
Processes it receives messages from:
1. FX Server for FX prices. Updated currency value then written to database.
2. Shipping company departures and arrivals. On departure money is debited from trader and credited to shipping company, on basis of distance of journey. On arrival money is credited to trader on basis of price at port.
3. FateAndGuesswork:
a) market prices. Commodity prices in database are updated accordingly.
b) stock prices. Database updated accordingly
5. Traders:
a) decisions to buy goods to warehouse. db updated accordingly.
b) decisions to organise a futures contract. db updated accordingly.
Processes it sends messages to:
a) sends warehouse ids to trader after receiving request for buys
b) sends trader msg with warehouse id after a future has been settled
Things it calculates:
1. whenever updating bank balances after an economic transaction, if movement it applies modifier from distance (= greater profit to freighter company, greater expense to trader), if trade in goods on open market takes into account current commodity price, if different currencies applies current FX multiplier
2. carries out futures contracts at point in time specified

Things it reads from database: nothing
Things it writes to database: see above
If process ends, what do other processes do:
All processes sending data to bank should throw exception and end gracefully.

////

FateAndGuesswork
Processes it receives messages from: none
Processes it sends messages to:
1. To Trader, sends "guesswork" calculated future price jumps of a given commodity for a given port and with given time (note only ports which actually import/export a given commodity will ever produce a surplus/suffer shortage). Only sent to a single trader.
2. To Bank:
a) Current market price of all commodities. Goes up and down via GBM, except for planned jumps due to predictions for traders. Make sure places which neither import nor export a commodity do not have a price created (unit test this, also take account of this in GUI).
b) Stock prices of each company. Goes up and down via GBM.
Things it calculates:
Semi-randomly calculates which ports will in future have a) have surplus of a commodity or b) have shortage of a commodity, i.e. how big the price will jump and at what date
Things it reads from database: info on commodities (at startup only?).
Things it writes to database: none
If process ends, what do other processes do:
All client processes should throw exception and end gracefully.

////

Trader
Processes it receives messages from:
1. FateAndGuesswork for predicted future times/places for futures contracts and goods buying
2. Shipping Companies for acceptances of contracts to move goods
Processes it sends messages to:
1. To Bank
a) decisions to buy goods at a given port b) to organise futures contracts.
2. To Shipping Companies
a) Contracts for movement of goods (from, to, expires) b) Acceptances of contracts for movement of goods
Things it calculates:
- maybe, at futures contract time, need to check db to make sure bank has successfully done transaction to give us the goods to sell?
1. On basis of distance between ports and also predicted information on future shortage or surplus of a given commodity for a given company, they calculate the most profitable places to buy goods to warehouse in readiness to sell (i.e. somewhere nearby to and cheap for predicted future shortage, possibly the same port), or to organise a futures contract to buy goods in future in readiness to sell (i.e. at the actual port of the predicted future surplus). Then when price fluctuation actually happens, warehoused goods are sold to nearest place that has a demand for those goods, or otherwise futures contract is fufilled and goods become warehoused goods (inserted into db), for themselves being sold in most profitable way possible. Though unforseen variation and/or the error in the prediction by fate and guesswork could still lead to them losing money.
2. it stores data on planned sale times of bought goods and settlement dates of futures. futures settlement dates also stored in db.
Things it reads from database: distance between ports, which ports import/export a given commodity
If process ends, what do clients do:
1. End of decisions to buy goods/futures contract/sell goods/move goods does not bother others. acceptances of movement contracts don't matter because shipping companies assume refused if not acked, and once accepted they can be actioned with no further input from trader.

ShippingCompany
Processes it receives messages from:
1. From Trader:
a) Available contracts for movement of goods from traders
b) Whether acceptance of movement of goods has been confirmed
Processes it sends messages to:
1. To Traders, acceptance of contract to move goods
2. To Bank, when it has collected goods, when it has delivered goods. See "CommodityTransport" database entity for attributes to broadcast.
Things it calculates: which contracts for movement of goods to accept
Things it reads from database: 
If process ends, what do clients do:
End of acceptances of contracts doesn't matter at all. End of messages about shipping departure and arrival will means some will end up losing out on money, but this shouldn't matter too much.

FXServer
Processes it sends messages to:
1. fluctuating currency prices
Things it calculates: fluctuating currency prices via GBM
Things it reads from db: info on currencies (at startup only?)
If process ends, what do clients do:
Bank should throw error and halt, system should just end gracefully.

